add Clinic docs (#7704)
pingcap/docs: clinic/clinic-data-instruction-for-tiup.md

---

> title: Clinic Diagnostic Data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: TiDB Clinic Diagnostic Data
```

> summary: Learn what diagnostic data can be collected by the Clinic diagnostic service from the clusters deployed using TiUP.

Author: ```suggestion
summary: Learn what diagnostic data can be collected by the Clinic Diagnostic Service from the clusters deployed using TiUP.
```

---

> # Clinic Diagnostic Data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# TiDB Clinic Diagnostic Data
```

> This document provides the scope of diagnostic data that can be collected by the Clinic diagnostic service from the clusters deployed using TiUP. Also, the document lists the parameters for data collection corresponding to each data type. When running a command to collect data using the Clinic Diag tool (Diag), you can add the required parameters to the command according to the scope of the data to be collected.

Author: ```suggestion
This document provides the scope of diagnostic data that can be collected by the Clinic Diagnostic Service (TiDB Clinic) from the clusters deployed using TiUP. Also, the document lists the parameters for data collection corresponding to each data type. When running a command to collect data using the Clinic Diag tool (Diag), you can add the required parameters to the command according to the scope of the data to be collected.
```

> This document provides the range of the diagnostic data that can be collected by the Clinic diagnostic service in the clusters deployed using TiUP. Also, the document lists the parameters for data collection corresponding to each data module. When running a command to collect data using the Clinic Diag tool (Diag), you can add the required parameters to the command according to the range of the data to be collected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document provides the scope of diagnostic data that can be collected by the Clinic diagnostic service from the clusters deployed using TiUP. Also, the document lists the parameters for data collection corresponding to each data type. When running a command to collect data using the Clinic Diag tool (Diag), you can add the required parameters to the command according to the scope of the data to be collected.
```

Reviewer: "range" usually focuses on the depth of something, for example,  limits between the minimum value and maximum value （一个参数的取值范围，注重线形上的范围）. 
"scope" usually focuses on the breadth of something. （能收集到哪些类型的数据的范围，注重广度上的范围）

> This document provides the scope of diagnostic data that can be collected by TiDB Clinic Diagnostic Service (TiDB Clinic) from the clusters deployed using TiUP. Also, the document lists the parameters for data collection corresponding to each data type. When running a command to collect data using the Clinic Diag tool (Diag), you can add the required parameters to the command according to the scope of the data to be collected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document provides the scope of diagnostic data that can be collected by TiDB Clinic Diagnostic Service (TiDB Clinic) from the clusters deployed using TiUP. Also, the document lists the parameters for data collection corresponding to each data type. When running a command to [collect data using the Clinic Diag tool (Diag)](clinic/clinic-user-guide-for-tiup.md), you can add the required parameters to the command according to the scope of the data to be collected.
```

> The diagnostic data collected by the Clinic diagnosis service is **only** used for troubleshooting.

Author: ```suggestion
The diagnostic data collected by the Clinic diagnosis service is **only** used for troubleshooting cluster problems.
```

> The diagnostic data collected by the Clinic diagnosis service is **only** used for troubleshooting cluster problems.

Author: ```suggestion
The diagnostic data collected by TiDB Clinic is **only** used for troubleshooting cluster problems.
```

> The Clinic Server is set up on the PingCAP intranet (in China). When you uploaded the collected diagnostic data to the Clinic Server for PingCAP developers to troubleshoot remotely, the data is stored in the AWS S3 China (Beijing) Region server set up by PingCAP. PingCAP strictly controls permissions for data access, and only authorized in-house developers can access the uploaded data.

Author: ```suggestion
The Clinic Server is set up on the PingCAP intranet (in China). When you uploaded the collected diagnostic data to the Clinic Server for PingCAP developers to troubleshoot cluster problems remotely, the data is stored in the AWS S3 China (Beijing) Region server set up by PingCAP. PingCAP strictly controls permissions for data access, and only authorized in-house developers can access the uploaded data.
```

> The Clinic Server is set up on the PingCAP intranet (in China). When you uploaded the collected diagnostic data to the Clinic Server for PingCAP developers to troubleshoot cluster problems remotely, the data is stored in the AWS S3 China (Beijing) Region server set up by PingCAP. PingCAP strictly controls permissions for data access, and only authorized in-house developers can access the uploaded data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Clinic Server is set up on the PingCAP intranet (in China). If you upload the collected diagnostic data to the Clinic Server for PingCAP technical support staff to troubleshoot cluster problems remotely, the uploaded data is stored in the AWS S3 China (Beijing) Region server set up by PingCAP. PingCAP strictly controls permissions for data access and only allows authorized in-house technical support staff to access the uploaded data.
```

After a technical support case is closed, PingCAP permanently deletes or anonymizes the corresponding data within 90 days.

> ## Data collection range of TiDB clusters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Data collection scope of TiDB clusters
```

> This section lists the detailed diagnostic data collected by Diag in a TiDB cluster deployed using TiUP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section lists the types of diagnostic data that can be collected by Diag from the TiDB clusters deployed using TiUP.
```

> This section lists the scope of diagnostic data that can be collected by Diag from the TiDB clusters deployed using TiUP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section lists the types of diagnostic data that can be collected by Diag from the TiDB clusters deployed using TiUP.
```

### Basic information of the cluster

| Data type | Exported file | Parameter for Clinic's data collection |
| :------ | :------ |:-------- |
| Basic information of the cluster, including the cluster ID | `cluster.json` | The data is collected every time by default. |
| Detailed information of the cluster | `meta.yaml` | The data is collected every time by default. |

### TiDB diagnostic data

> | Data type | Exported file | Parameter for Clinic's data collection |

Author: ```suggestion
| Data type | Exported file | Parameter for TiDB Clinic's data collection |
```

| :------ | :------ |:-------- |
| Log | `tidb.log` | `--include=log` |
| Error log | `tidb_stderr.log` | `--include=log` |
| Slow log | `tidb_slow_query.log` | `--include=log` |
| Configuration file | `tidb.toml` | `--include=config` |

> | Dynamic configuration | `config.json` | `--include=config` |

Author: ```suggestion
| Realtime configuration | `config.json` | `--include=config` |
```

### TiKV diagnostic data

> | Data type | Exported file | Parameter for Clinic's data collection |

Author: ```suggestion
| Data type | Exported file | Parameter for data collection by TiDB Clinic |
```

| :------ | :------ |:-------- |
| Log | `tikv.log` | `--include=log` |
| Error log | `tikv_stderr.log` | `--include=log` |
| Configuration file | `tikv.toml` | `--include=config` |

> | Dynamic configuration | `config.json` | `--include=config` |

Author: ```suggestion
| Realtime configuration | `config.json` | `--include=config` |
```

### PD diagnostic data

> | Data type | Exported file | Parameter for Clinic's data collection |

Author: ```suggestion
| Data type | Exported file | Parameter for Parameter for data collection by TiDB Clinic |
```

| :------ | :------ |:-------- |
| Log | `pd.log` | `--include=log` |
| Error log | `pd_stderr.log` | `--include=log` |
| Configuration file | `pd.toml` | `--include=config` |

> | Dynamic configuration | `config.json` | `--include=config` |

Author: ```suggestion
| Realtime configuration | `config.json` | `--include=config` |
```

| Outputs of the command `tiup ctl pd -u http://${pd IP}:${PORT} store` | `store.json` | `--include=config` |
| Outputs of the command `tiup ctl pd -u http://${pd IP}:${PORT} config placement-rules show` | `placement-rule.json` | `--include=config` |

### TiFlash diagnostic data

> | Data type | Exported file | Parameter for Clinic's data collection |

Author: ```suggestion
| Data type | Exported file | Parameter for data collection by TiDB Clinic |
```

| :------ | :------ |:-------- |
| Log | `tiflash.log` | `--include=log` |
| Error log | `tiflash_stderr.log` | `--include=log` |
| Configuration file |  `tiflash-learner.toml`，`tiflash-preprocessed.toml`，`tiflash.toml` | `--include=config` |

> | Dynamic configuration | `config.json` | `--include=config` |

Author: ```suggestion
| Realtime configuration | `config.json` | `--include=config` |
```

### TiCDC diagnostic data

> | Data type | Exported file | Parameter for Clinic's data collection |

Author: ```suggestion
| Data type | Exported file | Parameter for data collection by TiDB Clinic |
```

| :------ | :------ |:-------- |
| Log | `ticdc.log` | `--include=log`|
| Error log | `ticdc_stderr.log` | `--include=log` |
| Configuration file | `ticdc.toml` | `--include=config` |

### Prometheus monitoring data

> | Data type | Exported file | Parameter for Clinic's data collection |

Author: ```suggestion
| Data type | Exported file | Parameter for data collection by TiDB Clinic |
```

| :------ | :------ |:-------- |

> | All metric data | `{metric_name}.json` | `--include=monitor` |

Author: ```suggestion
| All metrics data | `{metric_name}.json` | `--include=monitor` |
```
```suggestion
| All metric data | `{metric_name}.json` | `--include=monitor` |
```

> | Alert list | `alerts.json` | `--include=monitor` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| All alerts data | `alerts.json` | `--include=monitor` |
```

### TiDB system variable

> | Data type | Exported file | Parameter for Clinic's data collection |

Author: ```suggestion
| Data type | Exported file | Parameter for data collection by TiDB Clinic |
```

> ### TiDB system variable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### TiDB system variables
```

| :------ | :------ |:-------- |

> | Get TiDB system variables (do not collect this data by default; if you need to collect the data, additional database account is required) | `mysql.tidb.csv` | `--include=db_vars` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Get TiDB system variables ( Diag will not collect this data by default; if you need to collect this data, database  credential is required) | `mysql.tidb.csv` | `--include=db_vars` |
```

> | Get TiDB system variables ( Diag does not collect this data by default; if you need to collect this data, database credential is required) | `mysql.tidb.csv` | `--include=db_vars` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Get TiDB system variables ( Diag does not collect this data type by default; if you need to collect this data type, database credential is required) | `mysql.tidb.csv` | `--include=db_vars` |
```

> | Get TiDB system variables ( Diag does not collect this data type by default; if you need to collect this data type, database credential is required) | `mysql.tidb.csv` | `--include=db_vars` |

Author: ```suggestion
| Get TiDB system variables (Diag does not collect this data type by default; if you need to collect this data type, database credential is required) | `mysql.tidb.csv` | `--include=db_vars` |
```

> | Get TiDB system variables ( Diag does not collect this data type by default; if you need to collect this data type, database credential is required) | `mysql.tidb.csv` | `--include=db_vars` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| TiDB system variables ( Diag does not collect this data type by default; if you need to collect this data type, database credential is required) | `mysql.tidb.csv` | `--include=db_vars` |
```

| | `global_variables.csv` | `--include=db_vars` |

### System information of the cluster

| Data type | Exported file | Parameter for Clinic's data collection |
| :------ | :------ |:-------- |
| Kernel log | `dmesg.log` | `--include=system` |
| Basic information of the system and the hardware | `insight.json` | `--include=system` |

> | Contents in the `/etc/security/limits.conf` system  | `limits.conf` | `--include=system` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Contents in the `/etc/security/limits.conf` | `limits.conf` | `--include=system` |
```

| List of kernel parameters | `sysctl.conf` | `--include=system` |
| Socket system information, outputs of the ss command | `ss.txt` | `--include=system` |

> ## Data collection range of DM clusters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Data collection scope of DM clusters
```

> | Socket system information, which is the output of the ss command | `ss.txt` | `--include=system` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Socket system information, which is the output of the `ss` command | `ss.txt` | `--include=system` |
```

> This section lists the scope diagnostic data collected by Diag from a DM cluster deployed using TiUP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section lists the types of diagnostic data that can be collected by Diag from the DM clusters deployed using TiUP.
```

### Basic information of the cluster

| Data type | Exported file | Parameter for Clinic's data collection |
| :------ | :------ |:-------- |

> | Basic information of the cluster, including the cluster ID  | `cluster.json`| The data is collected every time by default. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Basic information of the cluster, including the cluster ID  | `cluster.json`| The data is always collected per run. |
```

> | Detailed information of the cluster | `meta.yaml` | The data is collected every time by default.  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Detailed information of the cluster | `meta.yaml` | The data is always collected per run. |
```

### dm-master diagnostic data

| Data type | Exported file | Parameter for Clinic's data collection |
| :------ | :------ |:-------- |
| Log | `m-master.log` | `--include=log` |
| Error log | `dm-master_stderr.log` | `--include=log` |
| Configuration file | `dm-master.toml` | `--include=config` |

### dm-worker diagnostic data

| Data type | Exported file | Parameter for Clinic's data collection |
| :------ | :------ |:-------- |
| Log| `dm-worker.log` | `--include=log`|
| Error log | `dm-worker_stderr.log` | `--include=log` |
| Configuration file | `dm-work.toml` | `--include=config` |

### Prometheus monitoring data

| Data type | Exported file | Parameter for Clinic's data collection |
| :------ | :------ |:-------- |

> | All metric data | `{metric_name}.json` | `--include=monitor` |

Author: ```suggestion
| All metrics data | `{metric_name}.json` | `--include=monitor` |
```
```suggestion
| All metric data | `{metric_name}.json` | `--include=monitor` |
```

| Alert list | `alerts.json` | `--include=monitor` |

### System information of the cluster

| Data type | Exported file | Parameter for data collection by TiDB Clinic |
| :------ | :------ |:-------- |
| Kernel log | `dmesg.log` | `--include=system` |
| Basic system and hardware information | `insight.json` | `--include=system` |
| Contents in the `/etc/security/limits.conf` system | `limits.conf` | `--include=system` |
| List of kernel parameters | `sysctl.conf` | `--include=system` |

> | Socket system information, outputs of the ss command | `ss.txt` | `--include=system` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Socket system information, which is the output of the ss command) | `ss.txt` | `--include=system` |
```

> | Socket system information, which is the output of the ss command | `ss.txt` | `--include=system` |

Author: ```suggestion
| Socket system information, which is the output of the `ss` command | `ss.txt` | `--include=system` |
```
